During the first half of the 20th century, Canada went through a lot of important changes. It's
important to learn about these events because many of the ideas present in them are still relevant
to this day. Learning what those ideas were can help give you a better understanding of the country
we live in. This article will give some context on what 5 of the most important of those events
were and what impacts they have on present-day Canadian society.
##ITEM##
testing 1212
12345
vimyridge.jpg
yourmom
hello this is test
##ITEM##
5. The Battle of Vimy Ridge:
1982
vimyridge.jpg
Canadian machine gunners during the attack
Starting from what I'd consider the fifth most important, the Battle of Vimy Ridge took place throughout
April of 1917. Vimy Ridge was a German-controlled series of hills in France, and it provided them with
a vantage point for a lot of the surrounding territory. Other troops from Britain and other countries
had tried to take it for years, in multiple different attacks, but none had succeeded. In this battle,
however, Canada was able to effectively single-handedly capture the entire area. The battle is considered
one of the most successful battles in the war, and Canadian troops earned a lot of respect from the fact
that they won it basically on their own. They would later be sent out in other battles, showing
that they were important and putting Canada one step closer to being an independant country from Britain.
##ITEM##
4. Black Tuesday/The Great Depression
8443
blacktuesday.webp
People in the streets during Black Tuesday
Coming in at #4 on this list is a significantly less successful event. October 29, 1929, better known
as Black Tuesday, was the day that the stock market crashed. This crash would be the so-called "spark"
that kicked off the Great Depression, a decade-long period of economic ruin and widespread poverty.
The Praries were hit the hardest by the Depression, as not only did they have the same economic
troubles as everyone else, they had to deal with massive dust storms that killed most if not all of
their crops. The government needed to jumpstart the economy, but the parties that existed at the time
were reluctant to do certain things to start doing that, so several new parties were created to better
reflect what needed to happen. One of these parties was the CCF, who you might know better today as
the NDP. This party, along with others and reluctant support from the original two, put policies into
place that would help rebuild the economy. These policies and some of the parties that created them
continue to have political and social revelance to this day, making the event almost as important now
as it was then.
##ITEM##
3. Winnipeg General Strike:
64
strike.webp
The strike itself
The event that I believe fits the third spot on this list is the Winnipeg General Strike, which took
place on May 15, 1919. The buildup and the aftermath were really more important that the event itself,
though. Beforehand, throughout every piece of media there were ads, articles and propaganda from both
sides of the debate, which was between the workers (specifically those returning from the war) and their
employers. The workers decided that the conditions, hours, and pay they were given were unreasonable,
and they wanted the government to make new laws that would force those things to improve. The employers
thought that their demands looked a lot like the communist revolution that was happening in Russia at
the time, and they wanted none of it. Both of these opinions continue to be relevant to this day, with
many people in support of trade unions and laws on working conditions, and equally many believing that
such changes are the start of a communist uprising. Lives were lost and people were imprisoned unjustfully
as a result of the strikes, but they did force change to be made, and conditions for workers across the
country are better for it.
##ITEM##
2. The Holocaust:
3.14
auschwitz.webp
People released from Auschwitz standing behind barbed wire
Right back to tragedy for event #2, it's time to talk about the Holocaust. I'm sure you guessed that it
would make the list, and I know that most people already know what the general idea was, but what not
as many people know is that there were actually several phases to Hitler's plan, more than just "take
over some countries, kill some people." In fact, it started in the early 1930s with 6 years of propaganda,
so that when he did start conquering and killing it would be seen by the Germans as justified and morally
correct. Then, he started with the obvious plan of taking territory, capturing Jews and other people, and
dehumanizing and killing them. There were, of course, several sources of resistance to this, from the
obvious WWII allies to the spiritual resistance of those within the camps, and even some Germans who quietly
disagreed with Nazi ideals and took action either anonymously or in the background. All of these efforts
ended up defeating Nazi Germany within a few years, but millions still died both in the camps and during
the death marches that came towards the end when it was clear that the Axis were losing. There are several
lessons that can be learned from the tragedy, in an effort to prevent it from happening again. One of
these is just that you shouldn't ignore things like this when they happen. US oil companies, as an example,
continued supplying Germany as the war went on, but if they had've stopped it's likely that Hitler wouldn't
have been able to do as much as he did. Companies today seem to have learned this, as many of them have
stopped doing things with Russia after the attacks on Ukraine started. This should be effective, as long as
a couple more crucial businesses follow suit.
##ITEM##
1. The Persons Case:
0000
famous5.jpg
The Famous 5 and PM Mackenzie King
Well, this is the last item, the most important event in a full 30-year period. Though it's difficult to pick
one "most important event" from this era, I'd have to go with the Persons Case, specifically the Privy Council's
decision that women are, in fact, "persons." In 1928, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled the opposite, that the
British North America act's use of "persons" excluded women, meaning (among other things) that women could not
be appointed as senators. A group of 5 women who had championed women's rights in the past (later known as the
Famous 5) worked to reverse this, eventually convincing the Privy Council (Canada's highest court) to overturn
it on October 18, 1929. This was a leap forward for women's rights because it meant that not only could women
not be discriminated against by the British North America act, but also by any law using the term "persons"
(effectively all of them). Women could now push for rights in the Senate, the House, and pretty much any other
government position. Though the Persons Case didn't provide full legal equality for women, it did a lot, and it
opened the door for society to go even further in the future.
##ITEM##
As you can see, this era was one of many powerful changes and important historical moments. I did have to skip
over a few, like the 1918 pandemic, simply because there were so many that they didn't fit into the list of 5,
but I hope you've learned something about each of the ones I did cover. Knowing things about our history helps
you to make decisions in the present, to move towards the things that produced benefits to society and away from
those that turned out negatively, so by reading this article (and learning about history in general) you help
push society towards a better future.
##ITEM##
Cook, Tim. “The Battle of Vimy Ridge.” The Battle of Vimy Ridge | Canadian War Museum,
https://www.warmuseum.ca/the-battle-of-vimy-ridge/.///
Marshall, Tabitha, and David A Cruickshank. “Persons Case.” The Canadian Encyclopedia, 7 Feb. 2006,
https://www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca/en/article /persons-case.///
Duquette, Michelle. "World War I." Social Studies 10. Class lecture.
Duquette, Michelle. "World War II." Social Studies 10. Class lecture.
Duquette, Michelle. "The Interwar Years." Social Studies 10. Class lecture.